==================
Django-inlinetrans
==================

Introduction
============

Inlinetrans is a django application that allows the translation of django
templates from the rendered html in the browser. Once you have your templates
internationalized with inlinetrans, you can click on the untranslated messages
in their corresponding web pages to add their translations. This can be of
great help for translators, as they will be able to translate the messages
right in their intended context.

Features
========

A templatetag, inline_trans, intended as a replacement for django's trans.  A
management command, inline_makemessage, intended as a replacement for django's
makemessages.  A translation bar to show translatable messages, by default
visible only to staff members.  To translate the messages in a web page
rendered in your browser, you first find out, through the translation bar,
which messages have already been translated (marked light green) and which ones
lack translation (marked light red).

Then, you click on a marked message, and are prompted for its translation; on
entering the text and clicking OK, the new translation is sent to the server
and saved in the correct .po file.

Once you have translated all messages in a page, you can click on "apply
changes" on the translation bar. This forces a restart on the server, and the
reloading of the page with the translations applied.

Requirements
============

To use inlinetrans, you need:

>= Jquery-1.2.6

Installation
============

Add these two lines to your base template headers::

    <script type="text/javascript" src="http://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/1.3.2/jquery.min.js"></script>

    {% inlinetrans_media %}

Then add a url pattern that exposes the interface::

    (r'^inlinetrans/', include('inlinetrans')),  

Make sure media from inlinetrans is accessible in path::

  {{ MEDIA_URL }}inlinetrans

You need to do a copy or link `inlinetrans/media/inlinetrans` to the same
directory in your media folder.

Usage
=====

Make sure you load inlinetrans in all templates you want to internationalize,
by adding the following::

    {% load inlinetrans %}

Then, you can use::

    {% inline_trans "translate this" %}

Instead of::

    {% trans "translate this" %}

Inlinetrans adds html code to each translation, so make sure you don't use
inline_trans tags inside html attributes, such as this::

    <a href="#" alt="{% inline_trans "translate this" %}"></a>

In these cases you have to use the regular trans tag.

Once your template is internationalized, you run the following command::

    $ ./manage.py inline_makemessages

This extracts both inline_trans and trans messages from the templates, and
incorporates them to the gettext catalogs, just as makemessages does for trans
messages.

Afterwords, you can start your server, navigate to the rendered pages (as a
staff member), and, as explained above, translate the messages through the web.
